# Downscaling high accuracy and cloud free surface soil moisture at 1 km resolution by fusing point-surface data over Southwest US

Surface soil moisture (SSM) is one of the most critical variables in the understanding of global climate change and researches related to environmental and earth science. However, neither of current soil moisture products or downscaling algorithms alone can generate SSM with High spatial resolution, High spatio-temporal continuity (cloud-free and daily), and High accuracy simultaneously (i.e., 3H SSM data). Without this kind of 3H SSM data, fine-scale environmental and hydrological modelling cannot be easily achieved. To address this issue, we proposed a novel and integrated SSM downscaling framework inspired by point-surface fusion through deep learning technique. The framework was designed to produce 1 km spatially seamless and temporally continuous SSM with high accuracy by fusing multiple remotely sensed, model-based, and ground data. First, the SSM auxiliary variables (e.g., land surface temperature, surface reflectance) were performed with gap-filling techniques to ensure the spatial continuity. Meanwhile, extended triple collocation (ETC) method was adopted to filter reliable in-situ sensors to address the scale mismatch issue in the SSM downscaling. Then deep belief model (DBN) was utilized to downscale SSM at 1 km spatial resolution. The downscaling framework was validated over three ISMN soil moisture networks in the Southwest US. Results indicated that the average Pearson correlation coefficient (PCC), unbiased root mean squared error (ubRMSE), and mean absolute error (MAE) achieved 0.90, 0.032 m^3 m^(-3), and 0.032 m^3 m^(-3), respectively. Besides, the application of ETC method greatly improved the downscaling accuracy, of which the PCC, ubRMSE, and MAE were improved by 6.58%, 31.91%, and 32.69%, respectively. Comparative analyses have also been carefully conducted to confirm the effectiveness of the proposed framework, in terms of other downscaling algorithms, scale variations, and fusion methods. It was found clearly that the proposed method was promising for finer studies and applications in agricultural, hydrological, and environmental domains.


Currently, the manuscript is under review. More information will be released soon.
